pasco - Engineered by Ace Centre
pasco is a communication app that is designed for people
who have difficulty speaking and
have a physical impairment along with a visual impairment.
Pasco works like having a friend read out a list of
items and you select one of them when you hear the one you want.
Pasco puts these lists in a electronic format.
It is designed to work well for one, two or more switches.
These are buttons that you can press with your hand,
head or other body part
Or directly on-screen with a finger using the navigation
cursor that can be resized and moved how you need it.
To get started you need to plug in your switches or pair
them with your device and then configure them in the settings.
pasco has two different speaking voices; used for different purposes.
Firstly one is for the pasco user. Often the user has this voice
playing to them in some headphones or a small speaker.
Its designed just for them so they can hear whats being said on screen.
We call this the "cue" or "private"
voice. Secondly the other voice is for the communication
partner - the
person the pasco user is talking to. We call this
the main or public voice.
When the pasco user hears the correct cue element
they can press their select button
- or tap right on the screen navigation menu -
and it outputs the speech to the
main voice so everyone can hear them.
pasco can be setup and used in a number of different
ways depending on your needs.
On the following page there are some quick settings to
get you  started. You can
change the locale that changes the language of the apps settings and menus.
There's also an example vocabulary file - something that we call a "tree".
There is your cue and main voice settings and there
are also some simplified settings
of how you want to access it.  Just remember - there are
many more settings available in the settings
screen once you have started. Including ways of
changing the switch actions and voice details.
Once in the app you'll find a "help" button which gives
you some quick details of these settings.
The "play" button enables you to go back to the main
screen of "playing" the pasco tree.
There is also an edit button. This allows you to quickly
change the vocabulary.
Use the plus and minus buttons to add or remove new elements
and type into the text area your main voice words
- and in brackets a cue if you need it.
Just remember to use the navigation arrow to move around the tree.
There's a lot more you can do with pasco, including
controlling your lights and sending text messages
and to find out more have a read of the manual.
We hope the app is useful - and if you have any feedback
we'd love to hear from you